ENV_SETUP.md, before:

# Environment Configuration

This project uses environment variables to securely manage API keys and configuration.

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Local Development

1. **Copy the example environment file:**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

2. **Get your Marvel API keys:**
   - Visit [Marvel Developer Portal](https://developer.marvel.com/)
   - Sign up or log in
   - Go to "My Developer Account"
   - Copy your **Public Key** and **Private Key**

3. **Update `.env` file:**
   ```env
   MARVEL_PUBLIC_KEY=your_actual_public_key_here
   MARVEL_PRIVATE_KEY=your_actual_private_key_here
   ```

4. **Test locally:**
   ```bash
   npm start
   # or
   vercel dev
   ```

### 2. Vercel Deployment

#### Option A: Via Vercel Dashboard (Recommended)

1. Go to your project on [Vercel Dashboard](https://vercel.com/dashboard)
2. Click on your project → **Settings** → **Environment Variables**
3. Add two variables:
   - **Name:** `MARVEL_PUBLIC_KEY`
     **Value:** Your public key
   - **Name:** `MARVEL_PRIVATE_KEY`
     **Value:** Your private key
4. Select environment: **Production**, **Preview**, and **Development**
5. Click **Save**
6. Redeploy your project

#### Option B: Via Vercel CLI

```bash
# Set environment variables
vercel env add MARVEL_PUBLIC_KEY
# Enter your public key when prompted

vercel env add MARVEL_PRIVATE_KEY
# Enter your private key when prompted

# Deploy with environment variables
vercel --prod
```

## Environment Variables Reference

| Variable | Required | Description | Example |
|----------|----------|-------------|---------|
| `MARVEL_PUBLIC_KEY` | ✅ Yes | Your Marvel API public key | `abc123...` |
| `MARVEL_PRIVATE_KEY` | ✅ Yes | Your Marvel API private key | `def456...` |

## Security Notes

### ✅ DO:
- Keep your `.env` file in `.gitignore` (already configured)
- Use different keys for development and production if available
- Rotate your API keys periodically
- Never commit `.env` to version control

### ❌ DON'T:
- Share your `.env` file
- Commit API keys to Git
- Expose private keys in client-side code
- Hard-code sensitive values

## Troubleshooting

### "Marvel API keys not configured" Error

**Problem:** The serverless function can't find the API keys.

**Solution:**
1. Make sure environment variables are set in Vercel Dashboard
2. Redeploy after adding environment variables
3. Check variable names are exactly: `MARVEL_PUBLIC_KEY` and `MARVEL_PRIVATE_KEY`

### "Internal server error" from Marvel API

**Problem:** Marvel API is rejecting requests.

**Solution:**
1. Verify your API keys are correct
2. Check if keys are expired (get new ones from Marvel Developer Portal)
3. Ensure you haven't exceeded the rate limit (3000 calls/day)
4. Test keys directly at [Marvel API Interactive Documentation](https://developer.marvel.com/docs)

### Local development not working

**Problem:** API calls fail when running locally.

**Solution:**
1. Make sure `.env` file exists in project root
2. Check `.env` file has the correct format (no quotes needed)
3. Restart your development server after changing `.env`
4. If using `vercel dev`, it should automatically load `.env`

## File Structure

```
Marvel-Quiz/
├── .env                    # Your actual keys (ignored by Git)
├── .env.example           # Template for environment variables
├── .gitignore             # Ensures .env is not committed
├── api/
│   └── characters.js      # Serverless function using env vars
└── README.md              # Main project documentation
```

## Getting Help

- **Marvel API Issues:** [Marvel Developer Portal](https://developer.marvel.com/)
- **Vercel Environment Variables:** [Vercel Docs](https://vercel.com/docs/environment-variables)
- **Project Issues:** [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz/issues)

Commit message:

docs: Add Marvel API shutdown notice and deprecation warnings
- Add MARVEL_API_SHUTDOWN.md documenting API shutdown on Oct 29, 2025
- Update README.md with deprecation notices and archived status badges
- Update ENV_SETUP.md with historical reference warnings
- Add shutdown notice to api/characters.js function header
- Update .env.example with deprecation warnings
- Provide alternative API options (SuperHero API, Comic Vine API, etc.)
- Mark project as archived due to Marvel API unavailability

This project is no longer functional as the Marvel Developer Portal
and API have been permanently shut down. All Marvel API keys are
now invalid and unusable.

ENV_SETUP.md, after:

# Environment Configuration

⚠️ **IMPORTANT NOTICE:** As of October 29, 2025, the Marvel Developer Portal has been permanently shut down. This documentation is preserved for historical reference only. **Marvel API keys can no longer be obtained or used.** See [MARVEL_API_SHUTDOWN.md](MARVEL_API_SHUTDOWN.md) for details.

---

## Historical Setup Instructions (No Longer Applicable)

### 1. Local Development

1. **Copy the example environment file:**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

2. **Get your Marvel API keys:** ❌ **NO LONGER POSSIBLE**
   - ~~Visit [Marvel Developer Portal](https://developer.marvel.com/)~~ **SHUT DOWN**
   - ~~Sign up or log in~~ **UNAVAILABLE**
   - ~~Go to "My Developer Account"~~ **SERVICE DISCONTINUED**
   - ~~Copy your **Public Key** and **Private Key**~~ **KEYS INVALID**

3. **Update `.env` file:**
   ```env
   MARVEL_PUBLIC_KEY=your_actual_public_key_here
   MARVEL_PRIVATE_KEY=your_actual_private_key_here
   ```

4. **Test locally:**
   ```bash
   npm start
   # or
   vercel dev
   ```

### 2. Vercel Deployment

#### Option A: Via Vercel Dashboard (Recommended)

1. Go to your project on [Vercel Dashboard](https://vercel.com/dashboard)
2. Click on your project → **Settings** → **Environment Variables**
3. Add two variables:
   - **Name:** `MARVEL_PUBLIC_KEY`
     **Value:** Your public key
   - **Name:** `MARVEL_PRIVATE_KEY`
     **Value:** Your private key
4. Select environment: **Production**, **Preview**, and **Development**
5. Click **Save**
6. Redeploy your project

#### Option B: Via Vercel CLI

```bash
# Set environment variables
vercel env add MARVEL_PUBLIC_KEY
# Enter your public key when prompted

vercel env add MARVEL_PRIVATE_KEY
# Enter your private key when prompted

# Deploy with environment variables
vercel --prod
```

## Environment Variables Reference

| Variable | Required | Description | Example |
|----------|----------|-------------|---------|
| `MARVEL_PUBLIC_KEY` | ✅ Yes | Your Marvel API public key | `abc123...` |
| `MARVEL_PRIVATE_KEY` | ✅ Yes | Your Marvel API private key | `def456...` |

## Security Notes

### ✅ DO:
- Keep your `.env` file in `.gitignore` (already configured)
- Use different keys for development and production if available
- Rotate your API keys periodically
- Never commit `.env` to version control

### ❌ DON'T:
- Share your `.env` file
- Commit API keys to Git
- Expose private keys in client-side code
- Hard-code sensitive values

## Troubleshooting

### "Marvel API keys not configured" Error

**Problem:** The serverless function can't find the API keys.

**Solution:**
1. Make sure environment variables are set in Vercel Dashboard
2. Redeploy after adding environment variables
3. Check variable names are exactly: `MARVEL_PUBLIC_KEY` and `MARVEL_PRIVATE_KEY`

### "Internal server error" from Marvel API

**Problem:** Marvel API is rejecting requests.

**Solution:**
1. Verify your API keys are correct
2. Check if keys are expired (get new ones from Marvel Developer Portal)
3. Ensure you haven't exceeded the rate limit (3000 calls/day)
4. Test keys directly at [Marvel API Interactive Documentation](https://developer.marvel.com/docs)

### Local development not working

**Problem:** API calls fail when running locally.

**Solution:**
1. Make sure `.env` file exists in project root
2. Check `.env` file has the correct format (no quotes needed)
3. Restart your development server after changing `.env`
4. If using `vercel dev`, it should automatically load `.env`

## File Structure

```
Marvel-Quiz/
├── .env                    # Your actual keys (ignored by Git)
├── .env.example           # Template for environment variables
├── .gitignore             # Ensures .env is not committed
├── api/
│   └── characters.js      # Serverless function using env vars
└── README.md              # Main project documentation
```

## Getting Help

- **Marvel API Issues:** ~~[Marvel Developer Portal](https://developer.marvel.com/)~~ **SHUT DOWN - See [MARVEL_API_SHUTDOWN.md](MARVEL_API_SHUTDOWN.md) for alternatives**
- **Vercel Environment Variables:** [Vercel Docs](https://vercel.com/docs/environment-variables)
- **Project Issues:** [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz/issues)
