README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# 🦸 Marvel Cinematic Universe Quiz

### Test Your Knowledge of the Marvel Universe

[![Live Demo](https://img.shields.io/badge/demo-live-success?style=for-the-badge&logo=vercel)](https://marvel-quiz-project-ihuxs5kyp-eric-hunter-petross-projects.vercel.app)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg?style=for-the-badge)](./LICENSE)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-2.0.0-blue?style=for-the-badge)](./docs/CHANGELOG.md)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=for-the-badge)](./docs/CONTRIBUTING.md)

[![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-ES6+-F7DF1E?style=flat-square&logo=javascript&logoColor=black)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript)
[![Bootstrap](https://img.shields.io/badge/Bootstrap-5.3-7952B3?style=flat-square&logo=bootstrap&logoColor=white)](https://getbootstrap.com/)
[![Marvel API](https://img.shields.io/badge/Marvel-API-ED1D24?style=flat-square&logo=marvel&logoColor=white)](https://developer.marvel.com/)
[![Maintained](https://img.shields.io/badge/Maintained-Yes-green?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz/graphs/commit-activity)

---

<img src="./assets/img/screenshot.png" alt="Marvel Quiz Screenshot" width="800px" />

*An interactive quiz application featuring real Marvel characters and dynamic questions*

[🚀 Live Demo](https://marvel-quiz-project-ihuxs5kyp-eric-hunter-petross-projects.vercel.app) • [📖 Documentation](./docs) • [🐛 Report Bug](https://github.com/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz/issues) • [✨ Request Feature](https://github.com/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz/issues)

</div>

---

## ✨ Features

<table>
<tr>
<td>

### 🎮 Quiz Features
- **Dynamic Questions** from Marvel API
- **3 Difficulty Levels** (5/10/15 questions)
- **Multiple Question Types**
  - Character identification
  - Description matching
- **Real-time Score Tracking**
- **Progress Indicators**

</td>
<td>

### 🎨 User Experience
- **Modern Glassmorphism UI**
- **Smooth Animations**
- **Character Images**
- **Instant Feedback**
- **Performance Ratings**
- **Social Sharing**

</td>
<td>

### ♿ Accessibility
- **WCAG 2.1 Compliant**
- **Keyboard Navigation**
- **Screen Reader Support**
- **High Contrast**
- **Responsive Design**
- **Mobile Optimized**

</td>
</tr>
</table>

## 🛠️ Technologies Used

- **HTML5** - Semantic markup
- **CSS3** - Modern styling with custom properties, animations, and flexbox/grid
- **JavaScript (ES6+)** - Modular, class-based architecture
- **Bootstrap 5.3** - Responsive grid system and components
- **Font Awesome 6** - Icons and visual elements
- **CryptoJS** - Marvel API authentication
- **Marvel API** - Official Marvel character data

## 📋 Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have:

- A modern web browser (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge)
- Internet connection (required for Marvel API access)
- Marvel API keys (free at [Marvel Developer Portal](https://developer.marvel.com))

## � Quick Start

### Option 1: Direct Open (Fastest)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz.git
cd Marvel-Quiz
# Open index.html in your browser
```

### Option 2: Local Server (Recommended)

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz.git
cd Marvel-Quiz

# Start a local server (choose one):
python -m http.server 8000        # Python
npx http-server -p 8000           # Node.js
php -S localhost:8000             # PHP

# Open http://localhost:8000
```

### Option 3: Deploy to Vercel (Recommended for Production)

1. Fork this repository
2. Visit [vercel.com](https://vercel.com) and sign in
3. Click "New Project" → Import your forked repository
4. Deploy with default settings
5. Your quiz will be live at `https://your-project.vercel.app`

**Why Vercel?**
- Zero-configuration deployment
- Automatic HTTPS
- Global CDN for fast loading
- Free hosting for personal projects

> 📖 **Alternative deployment options:** See [Quick Start Guide](./docs/QUICKSTART.md) for GitHub Pages, Netlify, and other platforms

## 📁 Project Structure

```text
Marvel-Quiz/
├── 📄 index.html              # Main application entry point
├── 📜 script.js               # Application logic (ES6+ modules)
├── 🎨 style.css               # Styling and animations
├── 🧪 test.html               # Testing suite
├── ⚙️ config.example.js       # Configuration template
├── 📦 package.json            # NPM configuration
│
├── 📁 assets/
│   ├── bootstrap/             # Bootstrap 5.3 framework
│   └── img/                   # Screenshots and images
│
├── 📁 .github/
│   ├── workflows/             # CI/CD automation
│   │   └── deploy.yml         # GitHub Pages deployment
│   └── ISSUE_TEMPLATE/        # Issue templates
│       ├── bug_report.yml
│       └── feature_request.yml
│
├── 📁 docs/                   # Documentation
│   ├── 📖 CHANGELOG.md        # Version history
│   ├── 🤝 CONTRIBUTING.md     # Contribution guidelines
│   ├── 🔒 SECURITY.md         # Security policy
│   ├── 📜 CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md  # Community guidelines
│   ├── 🚀 QUICKSTART.md       # Quick setup guide
│   └── 📊 PROJECT_SUMMARY.md  # Project overview
│
├── 📄 LICENSE                 # MIT License
└── 🚫 .gitignore             # Git ignore rules
```

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

<div align="center">

| Category | Technologies |
|----------|-------------|
| **Frontend** | HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript ES6+ |
| **Framework** | Bootstrap 5.3 |
| **Icons** | Font Awesome 6 |
| **API** | Marvel API (REST) |
| **Security** | CryptoJS (MD5 Hashing) |
| **Deployment** | GitHub Pages, CI/CD |

</div>

### Architecture

```
QuizController (Main Orchestrator)
    ├── QuizState (State Management)
    ├── UIController (View Layer)
    ├── MarvelAPIService (Data Layer)
    └── QuestionGenerator (Business Logic)
```

## 🎮 How to Play

1. 🎯 **Select Difficulty** - Choose Easy (5), Medium (10), or Hard (15) questions
2. 🖼️ **View Character** - See Marvel character images or descriptions
3. ✅ **Answer Questions** - Click your answer from multiple choices
4. 📊 **Track Progress** - Monitor your score and progress in real-time
5. 🏆 **View Results** - Get detailed performance feedback
6. 🔄 **Share & Retry** - Share your score or try again to beat it!

## 🏗️ Architecture & Design Patterns

The application follows **clean architecture** principles with modern JavaScript best practices:

### Design Patterns Used

- **MVC Pattern**: Separation of Model (State), View (UI), and Controller
- **Service Pattern**: Dedicated API service layer
- **Factory Pattern**: Dynamic question generation
- **Observer Pattern**: State change notifications
- **Strategy Pattern**: Multiple question types

### Code Quality

- ✅ **ES6+ Modern JavaScript** - Classes, async/await, arrow functions
- ✅ **Modular Architecture** - Clear separation of concerns
- ✅ **Type Safety** - JSDoc comments for better IDE support
- ✅ **Error Handling** - Comprehensive try-catch blocks
- ✅ **DRY Principles** - Reusable utility functions
- ✅ **SOLID Principles** - Single responsibility per class

## ⚙️ Configuration

### API Keys (Optional)

The application includes demo API keys. For production use:

1. Get free keys at [developer.marvel.com](https://developer.marvel.com)
2. Copy `config.example.js` to `config.local.js`
3. Update with your keys
4. Import in `script.js`

```javascript
// In script.js
const CONFIG = {
  MARVEL_PUBLIC_KEY: 'your_key_here',
  MARVEL_PRIVATE_KEY: 'your_private_key_here',
  // ... rest of config
};
```

### Customization

<details>
<summary><b>🎨 Change Color Scheme</b></summary>

Edit CSS variables in `style.css`:

```css
:root {
  --marvel-red: #ed1d24;
  --marvel-dark: #202020;
  --marvel-darker: #151515;
}
```

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>➕ Add Question Types</b></summary>

Extend `QuestionGenerator` class:

```javascript
static createCustomQuestion(character, allCharacters) {
  return {
    type: 'custom',
    question: 'Your question here',
    answers: [...],
    correctAnswer: '...',
    explanation: '...'
  };
}
```

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>⚡ Modify Difficulty</b></summary>

Update difficulty options in `index.html`:

```html
<input type="radio" name="difficulty" id="expert" value="20">
<label for="expert">Expert (20 Questions)</label>
```

</details>

## 🌐 Browser Compatibility

<div align="center">

| Browser | Supported Versions | Status |
|---------|-------------------|--------|
| ![Chrome](https://img.shields.io/badge/Chrome-latest_2-4285F4?logo=googlechrome&logoColor=white) | Latest 2 versions | ✅ Fully Supported |
| ![Firefox](https://img.shields.io/badge/Firefox-latest_2-FF7139?logo=firefox&logoColor=white) | Latest 2 versions | ✅ Fully Supported |
| ![Safari](https://img.shields.io/badge/Safari-latest_2-000000?logo=safari&logoColor=white) | Latest 2 versions | ✅ Fully Supported |
| ![Edge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Edge-latest_2-0078D7?logo=microsoftedge&logoColor=white) | Latest 2 versions | ✅ Fully Supported |
| ![iOS](https://img.shields.io/badge/iOS-12+-000000?logo=apple&logoColor=white) | iOS 12+ | ✅ Fully Supported |
| ![Android](https://img.shields.io/badge/Android-6+-3DDC84?logo=android&logoColor=white) | Android 6+ | ✅ Fully Supported |

</div>

## � Security & Privacy

- ✅ **No Personal Data Collection** - Quiz results stay in your browser
- ✅ **Secure HTTPS** - All API calls over encrypted connections
- ✅ **Open Source** - Full code transparency
- 📖 **Security Policy** - See [SECURITY.md](./docs/SECURITY.md) for details
- 🔐 **API Best Practices** - Documented in security policy

## ❓ FAQ

<details>
<summary><b>How do I get my own Marvel API keys?</b></summary>

1. Visit [developer.marvel.com](https://developer.marvel.com)
2. Sign up for a free account
3. Navigate to "My Developer Account"
4. Copy your public and private keys
5. Update `script.js` with your keys

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Why am I getting API errors?</b></summary>

Common causes:
- **Rate limit exceeded**: Free tier allows 3000 calls/day
- **Network issues**: Check your internet connection
- **CORS errors**: Use a local server instead of opening `file://`
- **Invalid keys**: Verify your API keys are correct

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Can I use this project for commercial purposes?</b></summary>

Yes! This project is MIT licensed. However, note that Marvel character data is © Marvel Entertainment and subject to Marvel's API Terms of Use.

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>How do I add more question types?</b></summary>

See the [Customization](#%EF%B8%8F-configuration) section in this README or check out the detailed guide in [CONTRIBUTING.md](./docs/CONTRIBUTING.md).

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Is my quiz data saved?</b></summary>

No personal data is collected or saved. All quiz progress is stored locally in your browser session and cleared when you close the tab.

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Can I deploy this to my own hosting?</b></summary>

Absolutely! This is a static site that can be deployed to:
- GitHub Pages (free)
- Netlify (free)
- Vercel (free)
- Any static hosting service

See [QUICKSTART.md](./docs/QUICKSTART.md) for deployment instructions.

</details>

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

**📖 Read our [Contributing Guide](./docs/CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed guidelines**

## 🐛 Bug Reports & Feature Requests

- 🐛 **Found a bug?** [Report it here](https://github.com/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz/issues/new?template=bug_report.yml)
- ✨ **Have an idea?** [Request a feature](https://github.com/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz/issues/new?template=feature_request.yml)

## 📚 Documentation

| Document | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| [📖 Contributing Guide](./docs/CONTRIBUTING.md) | How to contribute to the project |
| [🔒 Security Policy](./docs/SECURITY.md) | Security guidelines and reporting |
| [📝 Changelog](./docs/CHANGELOG.md) | Version history and updates |
| [🚀 Quick Start](./docs/QUICKSTART.md) | Get started in 3 minutes |
| [📊 Project Summary](./docs/PROJECT_SUMMARY.md) | Complete transformation overview |
| [📁 Directory Structure](./docs/DIRECTORY_STRUCTURE.md) | Professional organization & best practices |
| [📜 Code of Conduct](./docs/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) | Community guidelines |

## �️ Roadmap

<details>
<summary><b>Version 2.1 - Coming Soon</b></summary>

- [ ] Backend API proxy for enhanced security
- [ ] Improved caching mechanism
- [ ] More question types (comics, series)
- [ ] Sound effects and background music
- [ ] Enhanced analytics

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Version 3.0 - Future</b></summary>

- [ ] User authentication system
- [ ] Global leaderboard
- [ ] Multiplayer mode
- [ ] Progressive Web App (PWA)
- [ ] Achievement system
- [ ] Internationalization (i18n)
- [ ] Daily challenges

</details>

## 🤝 Contributing

We love contributions! Please read our [Contributing Guide](./docs/CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn about our development process, how to propose bugfixes and improvements, and how to build and test your changes.

### Contributors

<a href="https://github.com/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz" />
</a>

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **[Marvel Entertainment](https://www.marvel.com/)** - For the amazing characters and official API
- **[Bootstrap Team](https://getbootstrap.com/)** - For the responsive framework
- **[Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)** - For the comprehensive icon library
- **[CryptoJS](https://github.com/brix/crypto-js)** - For secure MD5 hashing

## 📊 Stats

![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz?style=social)
![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz?style=social)
![GitHub watchers](https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz?style=social)
![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz)
![GitHub pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz)

---

<div align="center">

**Made with ❤️ by [Stray Dog Syndicate](https://github.com/StrayDogSyndicate)**

*Marvel and all related characters and elements are trademarks of and © Marvel Entertainment LLC.*

**[⬆ Back to Top](#-marvel-cinematic-universe-quiz)**

</div>

Commit message:

docs: Add Marvel API shutdown notice and deprecation warnings
- Add MARVEL_API_SHUTDOWN.md documenting API shutdown on Oct 29, 2025
- Update README.md with deprecation notices and archived status badges
- Update ENV_SETUP.md with historical reference warnings
- Add shutdown notice to api/characters.js function header
- Update .env.example with deprecation warnings
- Provide alternative API options (SuperHero API, Comic Vine API, etc.)
- Mark project as archived due to Marvel API unavailability

This project is no longer functional as the Marvel Developer Portal
and API have been permanently shut down. All Marvel API keys are
now invalid and unusable.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# 🦸 Marvel Cinematic Universe Quiz

⚠️ **IMPORTANT NOTICE:** This project is no longer functional due to the Marvel Developer Portal shutdown on October 29, 2025. All Marvel API keys are now invalid and the API is permanently unavailable. See [MARVEL_API_SHUTDOWN.md](MARVEL_API_SHUTDOWN.md) for details and alternative options.

---

### ~~Test Your Knowledge of the Marvel Universe~~ **Archived Project - API Unavailable**

[![Live Demo](https://img.shields.io/badge/demo-archived-inactive?style=for-the-badge&logo=vercel)](https://marvel-quiz-project-ihuxs5kyp-eric-hunter-petross-projects.vercel.app)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg?style=for-the-badge)](./LICENSE)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-2.0.0-blue?style=for-the-badge)](./docs/CHANGELOG.md)
[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-deprecated-red?style=for-the-badge)](./MARVEL_API_SHUTDOWN.md)

[![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-ES6+-F7DF1E?style=flat-square&logo=javascript&logoColor=black)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript)
[![Bootstrap](https://img.shields.io/badge/Bootstrap-5.3-7952B3?style=flat-square&logo=bootstrap&logoColor=white)](https://getbootstrap.com/)
[![Marvel API](https://img.shields.io/badge/Marvel-API%20DEPRECATED-ED1D24?style=flat-square&logo=marvel&logoColor=white)](./MARVEL_API_SHUTDOWN.md)
[![Maintained](https://img.shields.io/badge/Maintained-Archived-orange?style=flat-square)](./MARVEL_API_SHUTDOWN.md)

---

<img src="./assets/img/screenshot.png" alt="Marvel Quiz Screenshot" width="800px" />

*An interactive quiz application featuring real Marvel characters and dynamic questions*

**⚠️ Note:** This application no longer functions as the Marvel API was shut down on October 29, 2025.

[📋 Shutdown Notice](./MARVEL_API_SHUTDOWN.md) • [📖 Documentation](./docs) • [� Alternative APIs](./MARVEL_API_SHUTDOWN.md#alternative-options)

</div>

---

## ✨ Features

<table>
<tr>
<td>

### 🎮 Quiz Features
- **Dynamic Questions** from Marvel API
- **3 Difficulty Levels** (5/10/15 questions)
- **Multiple Question Types**
  - Character identification
  - Description matching
- **Real-time Score Tracking**
- **Progress Indicators**

</td>
<td>

### 🎨 User Experience
- **Modern Glassmorphism UI**
- **Smooth Animations**
- **Character Images**
- **Instant Feedback**
- **Performance Ratings**
- **Social Sharing**

</td>
<td>

### ♿ Accessibility
- **WCAG 2.1 Compliant**
- **Keyboard Navigation**
- **Screen Reader Support**
- **High Contrast**
- **Responsive Design**
- **Mobile Optimized**

</td>
</tr>
</table>

## 🛠️ Technologies Used

- **HTML5** - Semantic markup
- **CSS3** - Modern styling with custom properties, animations, and flexbox/grid
- **JavaScript (ES6+)** - Modular, class-based architecture
- **Bootstrap 5.3** - Responsive grid system and components
- **Font Awesome 6** - Icons and visual elements
- **CryptoJS** - Marvel API authentication
- **Marvel API** - Official Marvel character data

## 📋 Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have:

- A modern web browser (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge)
- Internet connection (required for Marvel API access)
- Marvel API keys (free at [Marvel Developer Portal](https://developer.marvel.com))

## � Quick Start

### Option 1: Direct Open (Fastest)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz.git
cd Marvel-Quiz
# Open index.html in your browser
```

### Option 2: Local Server (Recommended)

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz.git
cd Marvel-Quiz

# Start a local server (choose one):
python -m http.server 8000        # Python
npx http-server -p 8000           # Node.js
php -S localhost:8000             # PHP

# Open http://localhost:8000
```

### Option 3: Deploy to Vercel (Recommended for Production)

1. Fork this repository
2. Visit [vercel.com](https://vercel.com) and sign in
3. Click "New Project" → Import your forked repository
4. Deploy with default settings
5. Your quiz will be live at `https://your-project.vercel.app`

**Why Vercel?**
- Zero-configuration deployment
- Automatic HTTPS
- Global CDN for fast loading
- Free hosting for personal projects

> 📖 **Alternative deployment options:** See [Quick Start Guide](./docs/QUICKSTART.md) for GitHub Pages, Netlify, and other platforms

## 📁 Project Structure

```text
Marvel-Quiz/
├── 📄 index.html              # Main application entry point
├── 📜 script.js               # Application logic (ES6+ modules)
├── 🎨 style.css               # Styling and animations
├── 🧪 test.html               # Testing suite
├── ⚙️ config.example.js       # Configuration template
├── 📦 package.json            # NPM configuration
│
├── 📁 assets/
│   ├── bootstrap/             # Bootstrap 5.3 framework
│   └── img/                   # Screenshots and images
│
├── 📁 .github/
│   ├── workflows/             # CI/CD automation
│   │   └── deploy.yml         # GitHub Pages deployment
│   └── ISSUE_TEMPLATE/        # Issue templates
│       ├── bug_report.yml
│       └── feature_request.yml
│
├── 📁 docs/                   # Documentation
│   ├── 📖 CHANGELOG.md        # Version history
│   ├── 🤝 CONTRIBUTING.md     # Contribution guidelines
│   ├── 🔒 SECURITY.md         # Security policy
│   ├── 📜 CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md  # Community guidelines
│   ├── 🚀 QUICKSTART.md       # Quick setup guide
│   └── 📊 PROJECT_SUMMARY.md  # Project overview
│
├── 📄 LICENSE                 # MIT License
└── 🚫 .gitignore             # Git ignore rules
```

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

<div align="center">

| Category | Technologies |
|----------|-------------|
| **Frontend** | HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript ES6+ |
| **Framework** | Bootstrap 5.3 |
| **Icons** | Font Awesome 6 |
| **API** | Marvel API (REST) |
| **Security** | CryptoJS (MD5 Hashing) |
| **Deployment** | GitHub Pages, CI/CD |

</div>

### Architecture

```
QuizController (Main Orchestrator)
    ├── QuizState (State Management)
    ├── UIController (View Layer)
    ├── MarvelAPIService (Data Layer)
    └── QuestionGenerator (Business Logic)
```

## 🎮 How to Play

1. 🎯 **Select Difficulty** - Choose Easy (5), Medium (10), or Hard (15) questions
2. 🖼️ **View Character** - See Marvel character images or descriptions
3. ✅ **Answer Questions** - Click your answer from multiple choices
4. 📊 **Track Progress** - Monitor your score and progress in real-time
5. 🏆 **View Results** - Get detailed performance feedback
6. 🔄 **Share & Retry** - Share your score or try again to beat it!

## 🏗️ Architecture & Design Patterns

The application follows **clean architecture** principles with modern JavaScript best practices:

### Design Patterns Used

- **MVC Pattern**: Separation of Model (State), View (UI), and Controller
- **Service Pattern**: Dedicated API service layer
- **Factory Pattern**: Dynamic question generation
- **Observer Pattern**: State change notifications
- **Strategy Pattern**: Multiple question types

### Code Quality

- ✅ **ES6+ Modern JavaScript** - Classes, async/await, arrow functions
- ✅ **Modular Architecture** - Clear separation of concerns
- ✅ **Type Safety** - JSDoc comments for better IDE support
- ✅ **Error Handling** - Comprehensive try-catch blocks
- ✅ **DRY Principles** - Reusable utility functions
- ✅ **SOLID Principles** - Single responsibility per class

## ⚙️ Configuration

### API Keys (Optional)

The application includes demo API keys. For production use:

1. Get free keys at [developer.marvel.com](https://developer.marvel.com)
2. Copy `config.example.js` to `config.local.js`
3. Update with your keys
4. Import in `script.js`

```javascript
// In script.js
const CONFIG = {
  MARVEL_PUBLIC_KEY: 'your_key_here',
  MARVEL_PRIVATE_KEY: 'your_private_key_here',
  // ... rest of config
};
```

### Customization

<details>
<summary><b>🎨 Change Color Scheme</b></summary>

Edit CSS variables in `style.css`:

```css
:root {
  --marvel-red: #ed1d24;
  --marvel-dark: #202020;
  --marvel-darker: #151515;
}
```

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>➕ Add Question Types</b></summary>

Extend `QuestionGenerator` class:

```javascript
static createCustomQuestion(character, allCharacters) {
  return {
    type: 'custom',
    question: 'Your question here',
    answers: [...],
    correctAnswer: '...',
    explanation: '...'
  };
}
```

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>⚡ Modify Difficulty</b></summary>

Update difficulty options in `index.html`:

```html
<input type="radio" name="difficulty" id="expert" value="20">
<label for="expert">Expert (20 Questions)</label>
```

</details>

## 🌐 Browser Compatibility

<div align="center">

| Browser | Supported Versions | Status |
|---------|-------------------|--------|
| ![Chrome](https://img.shields.io/badge/Chrome-latest_2-4285F4?logo=googlechrome&logoColor=white) | Latest 2 versions | ✅ Fully Supported |
| ![Firefox](https://img.shields.io/badge/Firefox-latest_2-FF7139?logo=firefox&logoColor=white) | Latest 2 versions | ✅ Fully Supported |
| ![Safari](https://img.shields.io/badge/Safari-latest_2-000000?logo=safari&logoColor=white) | Latest 2 versions | ✅ Fully Supported |
| ![Edge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Edge-latest_2-0078D7?logo=microsoftedge&logoColor=white) | Latest 2 versions | ✅ Fully Supported |
| ![iOS](https://img.shields.io/badge/iOS-12+-000000?logo=apple&logoColor=white) | iOS 12+ | ✅ Fully Supported |
| ![Android](https://img.shields.io/badge/Android-6+-3DDC84?logo=android&logoColor=white) | Android 6+ | ✅ Fully Supported |

</div>

## � Security & Privacy

- ✅ **No Personal Data Collection** - Quiz results stay in your browser
- ✅ **Secure HTTPS** - All API calls over encrypted connections
- ✅ **Open Source** - Full code transparency
- 📖 **Security Policy** - See [SECURITY.md](./docs/SECURITY.md) for details
- 🔐 **API Best Practices** - Documented in security policy

## ❓ FAQ

<details>
<summary><b>How do I get my own Marvel API keys?</b></summary>

1. Visit [developer.marvel.com](https://developer.marvel.com)
2. Sign up for a free account
3. Navigate to "My Developer Account"
4. Copy your public and private keys
5. Update `script.js` with your keys

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Why am I getting API errors?</b></summary>

Common causes:
- **Rate limit exceeded**: Free tier allows 3000 calls/day
- **Network issues**: Check your internet connection
- **CORS errors**: Use a local server instead of opening `file://`
- **Invalid keys**: Verify your API keys are correct

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Can I use this project for commercial purposes?</b></summary>

Yes! This project is MIT licensed. However, note that Marvel character data is © Marvel Entertainment and subject to Marvel's API Terms of Use.

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>How do I add more question types?</b></summary>

See the [Customization](#%EF%B8%8F-configuration) section in this README or check out the detailed guide in [CONTRIBUTING.md](./docs/CONTRIBUTING.md).

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Is my quiz data saved?</b></summary>

No personal data is collected or saved. All quiz progress is stored locally in your browser session and cleared when you close the tab.

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Can I deploy this to my own hosting?</b></summary>

Absolutely! This is a static site that can be deployed to:
- GitHub Pages (free)
- Netlify (free)
- Vercel (free)
- Any static hosting service

See [QUICKSTART.md](./docs/QUICKSTART.md) for deployment instructions.

</details>

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

**📖 Read our [Contributing Guide](./docs/CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed guidelines**

## 🐛 Bug Reports & Feature Requests

- 🐛 **Found a bug?** [Report it here](https://github.com/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz/issues/new?template=bug_report.yml)
- ✨ **Have an idea?** [Request a feature](https://github.com/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz/issues/new?template=feature_request.yml)

## 📚 Documentation

| Document | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| [📖 Contributing Guide](./docs/CONTRIBUTING.md) | How to contribute to the project |
| [🔒 Security Policy](./docs/SECURITY.md) | Security guidelines and reporting |
| [📝 Changelog](./docs/CHANGELOG.md) | Version history and updates |
| [🚀 Quick Start](./docs/QUICKSTART.md) | Get started in 3 minutes |
| [📊 Project Summary](./docs/PROJECT_SUMMARY.md) | Complete transformation overview |
| [📁 Directory Structure](./docs/DIRECTORY_STRUCTURE.md) | Professional organization & best practices |
| [📜 Code of Conduct](./docs/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) | Community guidelines |

## �️ Roadmap

<details>
<summary><b>Version 2.1 - Coming Soon</b></summary>

- [ ] Backend API proxy for enhanced security
- [ ] Improved caching mechanism
- [ ] More question types (comics, series)
- [ ] Sound effects and background music
- [ ] Enhanced analytics

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Version 3.0 - Future</b></summary>

- [ ] User authentication system
- [ ] Global leaderboard
- [ ] Multiplayer mode
- [ ] Progressive Web App (PWA)
- [ ] Achievement system
- [ ] Internationalization (i18n)
- [ ] Daily challenges

</details>

## 🤝 Contributing

We love contributions! Please read our [Contributing Guide](./docs/CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn about our development process, how to propose bugfixes and improvements, and how to build and test your changes.

### Contributors

<a href="https://github.com/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz" />
</a>

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **[Marvel Entertainment](https://www.marvel.com/)** - For the amazing characters and official API
- **[Bootstrap Team](https://getbootstrap.com/)** - For the responsive framework
- **[Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)** - For the comprehensive icon library
- **[CryptoJS](https://github.com/brix/crypto-js)** - For secure MD5 hashing

## 📊 Stats

![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz?style=social)
![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz?style=social)
![GitHub watchers](https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz?style=social)
![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz)
![GitHub pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/StrayDogSyn/Marvel-Quiz)

---

<div align="center">

**Made with ❤️ by [Stray Dog Syndicate](https://github.com/StrayDogSyndicate)**

*Marvel and all related characters and elements are trademarks of and © Marvel Entertainment LLC.*

**[⬆ Back to Top](#-marvel-cinematic-universe-quiz)**

</div>
